
# 
# $Id: Changes-Watcher.pod,v 1.4 2004/01/30 19:22:42 matt Exp $ 
#

=head1 01.19.2004 

 - Qmail.pm - updated so that rblsmtpd options will
   only be added if rbls are enabled in the config
   file.

=head1 12.16.2003 - 1.0

 - Qmail.pm - added code to support fail closed, 
   timeout, and hard failure options of rblsmtpd
 - Added rbl_timeout option to -watcher.conf


=head1 11.22.2003 - 0.8

 - Massivly updated Qmail.pm, now we dynamically
   build the smtp, send, and pop3 run files
 - Check to see if we're updating or installing
   the new control file.
 - Added debugging output
 - Only update the file if it's different than the
   installed one.
 - Made changes necessary due to Qmail.pm updates


=head1 11.21.2003 - 0.7

Moved into Mail::Toaster::Watcher. Migrated all subs out of toaster-watcher.pl script and into the Mail::Toaster::Qmail subroutine. 

Added additional code to also write out qmails pop3 run files based on .conf settings.


=head1 11.06.2003 - 0.6

Updates to the toaster-watcher.conf log file. More config settings were added to support the toaster-setup.pl script. It will now read the toaster-watcher.conf file and build the toaster per the settings you have there.

Lots more documentation. Added pod sections to script, added docs/Changes.pod, FAQ.pod, and Credits.pod. Also published docs to new web home for Toaster-Watcher: http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/watcher/


=head1 10.06.2003 - 0.5

Added a bunch of options (and code for them) to work in more diverse setups.

Installs smtp/run file and restarts qmail-smtpd


=head1 09.29.2003 - 0.3

First release - only current function is building the smtp/run file for qmail-smtpd.


=head1 09.26.2003 - 0.2

MATT::DNS add to MATT::Bundle

Polls selected RBL servers via new module MATT::DNS, adds available rbls to list for inclusion in smtp/run file.


=head1 09.24.2003 - 0.1

toaster-watcher.conf file format established
