
#
# $Id: Patches.pod,v 4.0 2004/11/16 20:57:31 matt Exp $
#

=head2 v2.9 2004.03.07

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/netqmail-1.05-toaster-2.9.patch

This is Bill Shupp's netmail toaster patches, with no changes at all. Rather than modifying the patch, all the config settings that need to be overridden are modified after the patch(es) are applied. This will make porting Mail::Toaster to other platforms much easier.


=head2 v2.7

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.7.patch

Based on Bill Shupp's large qmail patch AND his chkusr mysql patch, together and then with a few minor modifications. We use the standard qnofiles group for FreeBSD's port based qmail, use a different location for mysql libs, and include a bunch more documentation for the patches that are included (README.*), and a few minor code tweaks so that the make cert targets will work if your qmail is installed somewhere other than /var/qmail.


=head2 v2.6 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.6.patch

Based on Bill Shupp's patch with only a minor modification to use the standard qnofiles group for FreeBSD's port based qmail.


=head2 v2.5 

unpublished


=head2 v2.4 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.4.patch

Added qmail-smtpd-chkusr - http://www.interazioni.it/qmail/


=head2 v2.3 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.3.patch

big-concurrency.patch (see README.big-concurrency) raises the number of simultaneous outgoing connections we can make. 

smtp tarpitting patch (see README.tarpit)

Eric Johnson's SMTP-AUTH patch (see the README.auth or 'man qmail-smtpd' after installing). 

TLS patch - (see README.tls)

qmail-queue - (see README.qmailqueue) - Use for filtering

qmail-pop3d maildir++ quota support - Bill Shupp's patch


=head2 v2.2 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.0.patch

To closely resemble the FreeBSD qmail port, we:

	DNS patch (AOL) to accept >512 byte dns entries.
	Change qmails nofiles group to qnofiles. 

- big-concurrency.patch (see README.big-concurrency) raises the number of simultaneous outgoing connections we can make.

- smtp tarpitting patch (see README.tarpit)

- Eric Johnson's SMTP-AUTH patch (see the README.auth or 'man qmail-smtpd' after installing).

- qmail-queue - For use with mail filtering software

- qmail-pop3d maildir++ quota support - Bill Shupp's patch

- qmail-badrcptto patch - see README.badrcptto

- Patch to make sure evelope sender is a valid DNS name. (based on Nagy Balazs's patch)

=head2 v2.0 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/toaster/patches/qmail-1.03-toaster-2.0.patch


=head2 v1.0 

http://www.tnpi.biz/internet/mail/qmail/qmail-1.03-matt-toaster.patch

combines SMTP-AUTH, tarpitting, DNS, and large concurrency patches
