
=head1 Mail Toaster Changes


=head2 5.08 - Nov 21, 2007

    tw.conf: added rbl psbl.surriel.com
    tw.conf: added rwl list.dnswl.org
    DNS.pm - adjust the RBL positive tests to accommodate pattern used by dnswl.org 
    Qmail.pm - smtp_set_rbls invoked get_list_of_rwls incorrectly (Bugz #3)
    t/qqtool.t & toaster_setup.t - run the script using the same version of
      perl as the test is being run as. - (for CPAN testers)
    t/Logs.t - see if syslog's mail.log exists before testing against it
    t/Utility.t - only run network tests on darwin and FreeBSD (for now).


=head2 5.07 - Oct 19, 2007

   qmail_toaster_patch_version = 3.1
   missing \ in qmail-pop3d/run file caused pop3 not to run
   updated logmonster download URL
   rrdutil port moved from net to databases
   snmpd rc.d file can be named snmpd or snmpd.sh
   ucspi-tcp source install, updated patch format
   only pass vpopmail mysql defines if selected (port now checks this)


=head2 5.06 - Sep 19, 2007

 Added bin/swaks
 Added bin/audit.pl
 Added bin/install_deps.sh
 Changed several default values in tw.conf:
   toaster_os_release to RELENG_6_2
   simscan_received = 0
   qmail_toaster_patch_version = 3.2
   install_vpopmail = 5.4.17
   install_php = 5
   install_dovecot = 1.0.2 (Linux only)
 Install OpenSSL stable port by default
 Updated dovecot.conf patch
 Added ./configure to dovecot source install
 rewrote install_squirrelmail sub
 only test submit service if its selected.
 format the service/run files for easier legibility
 Check permissions on toaster-watcher.conf file
 Don't ask about mysql package if package install selected
 Always run portsnap fetch update when ports_update is called
 Source installs for dovecot, ripmime, ucspi-tcp, and 
   rrdtool were passing an invalid patches value.
 Altered netstat invocation on Linux so it works reliably
 Only test snmp if it is enabled
 Put the contents of "openssl ciphers" into
   /var/qmail/control/tlsserverciphers. Should resolve some
   openssl issues.
 

=head2 5.05 - Feb 7, 2007

 Extensive updates for Darwin and Linux platforms
 Support for Yahoo DomainKeys
 Fixed -s allspam target (thanks Georg) 
 Support for dovecot IMAP/POP3 server

 toaster-watcher.conf
   - added install_gnupg option
   - added install_dovecot option (alternative to courier-imap)
   - added qmail_domainkeys option
   - added smtpd_verbose, pop3_verbose, submit_verbose options (adds -v flag
      to tcpserver in */run files)
   - replaced sbl_xbl.spamhaus.org with zen.spamhaus.org

 Apache.pm
   - added DirectoryIndex index.php declaration to PHP webmail apps in
     apache/Includes/mail-toaster.conf
   - added v-webmail Alias and Directory declarations
   - enable v-webmail Alias by default in apache include

 Darwin.pm
   - turned debugging off in syscmd call in port install sub

 FreeBSD.pm
   - port location of portupgrade updated (sysutils->ports-mgmt)
   - report how old ports tree is

 Mysql.pm
   - instead of looking for the dports dir on Darwin, look for the "port"
     binary to detect if DarwinPorts is configured
   - offer to install the mysql package instead of port (to save time)

 Passwd.pm
   - new user sub, $vals->{'username'} needed to be $vals->{'user'}

 Qmail.pm
   - on FreeBSD, be smarter about disabling sendmail and enabling qmail

 Setup.pm - 
   - Georg von Itzenplitz - allspam target created an empty .qmail with
     invalid ownership, sent patch.
   - fix for installing phpMyAdmin with php5
   - the squirrelmail sub does a better job of setting up squirrelmail with
     mysql prefs (no guarantees yet).
   - added sub for installing roundcube, domainkeys, and dovecot
   - RRDutil was not fetching dist properly
   - autorespond failed to build on darwin due to quoting error
   - if $config_dir ($prefix/etc)  is missing, create it
   - added vpopmail_valias to Darwin config tweaks
   - added an entire section of Linux config tweaks
   - search for gmake is no longer fatal (on Linux, gmake is installed as make)
   - isoqlog source build now works again (patches needed to be an arrayref)
   - added port_ options for Apache2-SOAP perl module
   - added download addresses for NicTool installs
   - added WITH_DATABASE to squirrelmail installs (so pear-DB will be installed)
   - suppress build time prompt if vpopmail_learn_passwords is disabled
   - updated vpopmail creategroup syntax, it now creates user/groups on
     Linux/Darwin again.
   - only check for service/pop3 symlink if pop3_daemon = qpop3d



=head2 5.04 - Nov 25, 2006

 Setup.pm - mailfilter generation code generated an invalid filter
      file if filtering_spamassassin_method was not = site.
    - installing phpmyadmin attempted to install php4-gd
      despite install_php = 5.
 *.pm - updated calls to darwin->port_install to reflect an internal
      API change. 


=head2 5.03 - Nov 8, 2006

 Logs.pm - comment out a print statement that caused a snmp counting error in maillogs

 Setup.pm - install Params-Validate port on FreeBSD & Darwin

 t/maillogs - return a more specific error message if Date::Parse not installed

=head2 5.03rc1 - Oct 15, 2006

=over

=item Packaging Updates

Moved Params::Validate into inc directory (prevent CPAN from presuming I provide it), moved Changes back into doc/Changes.pod, added include lib "inc" into all test files (forgot that with 5.02 release). 

Better pod descriptions for FreeBSD.pm, Mysql.pm, Apache.pm, Ezmlm.pm, Darwin.pm, DNS.pm, Provision.pm, Setup.pm, Passwd.pm, Perl.pm, and Toaster.pm. Updated META.yml to include license.

=item FreeBSD Port preparations

Default htdocs directory is now /usr/local/www/toaster.

=item CPAN test tweaks

Don't do passwd test on cygwin. Don't do network tests on Cygwin

=back

 toaster-watcher.conf
   added install_roundcube option

 Darwin.pm
   updated $utility calls with MT 5 syntax updates
   udpated test file to use Test::More

 t/Utility.t
    only attempt to chown_system if we are root, don't run get_my_ips on 
    netbsd (until I figure out why it doesn't work

 Changes
   added file to distribution

 bin/toaster_setup.pl
   added RT URL to bug section for reporting

 bin/sysadmin
   updated for MT 5 syntax

 Passwd.pm 
    mt 5 syntax updates, add in warnings for failures

 Qmail.pm
   formatting cleanups, and added a few missing debug=>0 settings.

 Provision.pm
    mt 5 updates and rewrite. If values are missing and we are interactive,
       prompt for the missing values.
    pass debug and $conf variables in the $provision object (accomplish 
       the same result with less code)

 Utility.pm
   answer sub now returns $default value (instead of 0) if not interactive
   yes_or_no supports q shortcut for question argument


=head2 5.02 - 2006.10.11

=over

=item toaster-watcher.conf

added options install_ezmlm_mysql, vpopmail_mysql_repl_master_port, vpopmail_mysql_repl_slave_port

=item t/Toaster.pm 

get_dir_files tests the file size to see if any domains are added yet (more reliable test)

=item FreeBSD.pm

 fixed a recursion bug in ports_update (portsnap)
 install a default portsnap.conf if missing
 FreeBSD version detection wasn't working

=item Apache.pm

 added security options to mail-toaster.conf to harden Apache
 added PHP AddType declarations
 added directory block for phpmyadmin
 only add phpmyadmin block if selected in toaster-watcher.conf

=item Setup.pm

ezmlm mysql support now depends on install_ezmlm_mysql setting instead of install_mysql.

added support for vpopmail mysql database port number (thanks Erik!)

vpopmail_mysql_database setting is now honored.

busted huge vpopmail sub into a dozen smaller ones for easier maintenance.

heredoc's used in creation of tcp.smtp used  ' and needed "

logic for NO_SENDMAIL test was inverted causing it to be added to /etc/make.conf more than once.

=back

=head2 5.02b - 2006.09.28

=over

=item index.cgi 

defined debug (caused it to not work)

=item Apache.pm

test for toaster_apache_vhost

add alias for rrdutil, v-webmail, and roundcube to apache's vhost config file(mail-toaster.conf)

=item Ezmlm.pm

 define any missing cgi params to suppress errors messages
 filled in pod description

=item FreeBSD.pm - detection of portsdb wasn't working

supress notification of new toaster-watcher.conf install if its missing

=item Logs.pm - prettied up the yesterday report a little bit.

 added checks to prevent warnings when logs are empty
 log archiving was failing (invalid test)

=item Perl.pm

 added pod doc for has_module

=item Setup.pm

 phpmyadmin_install was not passing $conf 

=item Utility.pm

Fixed a bug in mailtoaster sub that prevented it from finding the tw.conf file

added _progress_??? subs for providing status messages on the CLI

added pod documentation for several subs that had none

=back


=head2 5.01 - 2006.09.22

=over

 added help->vpopmail option to web interface
 added setup -s allspam option (enabled mail filtering for all users)
 default ports update mechanism is now portsnap
 removed dependency on Net::DNS (using dig)

commented out v-webmail, roundcube, vqadmin, and ezmlm menu options. Those items are not installed by Mail::Toaster (yet). 

added code in -s all target to refresh the $conf hashref after -s config target is run

moved $conf into the Setup.pm object. Significantly reduced the amount of passing $conf around from sub to sub.

added options and explicit port install options for gnupg and Archive::Tar to surpress dialog boxes.

timer was not working in yes_or_no due to typo in param validation block

disabled ezmlm and vqadmin in webmail. Activate them by removing the comments in mt-top.html

default cvsup_supfile_sources settings is now cvsup-sources (was cvsup-stable)

tweaks so "make test" runs with fewer warnings

toaster_setup -s sources now auto-builds cvsup-sources if missing. The location for it is /usr/local/etc now.

=back

=head2 5.00 - 2006.09.18

=over

=item CODE QUALITY

* Parameter validation for nearly all subroutines using Params::Validate. Backwards compatability is now destroyed, but that should not affect anyone as all published software that uses these functions is included with the distribution. Params::Validate is included in MT distribution.

* Tests. Hundreds of new tests. In version 4, I added a plethora of tests, basically just making sure each sub and function would execute. Now most subs and functions have tests that verify inputs and results. 

* Switched to Test::More for tests. Provides more and better options for writing tests, comparing results, and figuring out where the tests failed. 

* Maillogs - a number of optimizations to make processing logs faster (shorter regexps, optimized ternaries to match common stuff first, removed POSIX requirement (lighten memory requirements),  updated several of the counter functions to complain about unknown errors and values, more sanity checking in functions so they give up on errors instead of blithely charging ahead.

* instead of eval's strewn all over to test for certain modules, added $perl->has_module

* all objects are created with Class->new intead of new Class. 

* all errors raise exceptions by default. This requires callers to take specific action to change.

* run tests early in subroutines, reduces giant if nests and makes it easier to read the code.


=item MISC

* Added Build.PL for use with Module::Build fans.

* Greatly simplified Makefile.PL by moving "make cgi" and "make conf" logic into Setup.pm. Those functions are now accessed by toaster_setup targets. 

* OpenSSL config files are now updated automatically. Auto-generated certs now have the accurate information in them. Courier-IMAP certs are also updated automatically.


=item DOCUMENTATION

* Added three new test modules that test for: pod documentation for subs, pod formatting, and  automatic checking of code to test for best practices. 

* moved POD documentation from being strewn about the files to the end of each file.

* wrote and re-wrote significant portions of the documentation, as well as cleaned up formatting. Documentation is now easier to find as well.

 changed all tnpi.biz urls to tnpi.net
 shortened most tnpi.net urls to mail-toaster.org
 updated copyright notices to 2006
 moved usage() subs into pod docs and use pod2usage

=item CODE FORMATTING & READABILITY

* Used perltidy to format most of the source code.

* Used perlcritic to identify and correct (almost) all instances where my code was not using best practices, as identified in Perl Best Practices. 

* All subroutines now take named arguments, making it easier to read the code and understand what is being sent and returned.

* added "use English" pragma and replaced all the arcane $^ and $[ perl variables with their english name equivalents.


=item WEB INTERFACE/CGI

* Completely new webmail/logon interface. Written entirely in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

* The format of toaster-watcher.conf is altered slightly. It is more consistent in the internal layout so that my programs can alter it reliably. 

* removed httpd.conf patches in favor of installing a mail-toaster.conf file with all the requisite apache directives.

* Organized all the cgi related docs into cgi_files directory. They are now installed via the -s webmail target to toaster_setup. 

=back

See Also 4.x Changes L<http://mail-toaster.org/changes/4.x-changes.html>

